*“The first great thing is to find yourself and for that you need solitude and contemplation – at least sometimes. I can tell you that deliverance will not come from the rushing noisy centers of civilization. It will come from the lonely places.”* 

*\- Fridtjof Nansen*

	It’s only May, yet the humidity is already oppressive. It hits as soon as I step outside, disregarding the shade provided by the ceiling of my front porch and the large elm tree that stands proudly in my front yard. The press of the sticky air feels like a weighted blanket that has been dropped on my shoulders, giving me an extra layer of warmth that I neither asked for nor needed. Still, it’s better than being inside.   

	Inside is where I am for the other 23 hours of the day, thanks to a virus too small to be seen without a powerful microscope. This tiny ball of RNA upended everything I knew, and the pastimes upon which I used to base my identity vanished in the blink of an eye. Now, my life is enveloped by the walls of my house – within them I wake up, eat, spend my free time, and sleep. I spend my days inside attending school, until summer starts and school ends, and then I spend my days trying to figure out how to spend my days. There is no humidity inside, but there isn’t much of anything else, either. 

	So I am outside, facing my town of Takoma Park, even though it is humid and I am uncomfortable. I walk down my porch steps with heavy steps, feeling frustrated for no discernible reason. I don’t want to be out here, among the sun and pavement and mosquitoes, but neither do I want to be in there, sandwiched between drywall and family members. Trudging to my street, I am faced with a choice: left, or right?  

	This is the first of many walks, and throughout them all I will never turn right. Right is uphill, upwards onto Carroll Avenue’s bustle of small businesses and family-owned restaurants. If Takoma Park was the set of an old, grainy Western film, Carroll Avenue would be called Main Street. Instead, in an attempt for our liberal-bubble of a town to firmly disavow itself from Maryland’s slave-owning past, it is named after a Union Army brigadier general. Carroll Avenue is the face of Takoma Park, but I don’t want to walk towards the energy I feel radiating from up the hill. It’s too much for me right now. Instead, I turn left. I head downhill, straight for the heart of my town.   

	It’s June, and over the last couple of weeks, the outdoors have slowly chipped away at my frustration, transforming it into an unfamiliar sort of calm curiosity. I’ve begun to notice details that allow me to really *see* Takoma Park for the first time in my life. The spring flowers are in full bloom, the streets are bursting with color, and as I continue to walk down the hill, I feel as though I am descending into a wild greenhouse. Some areas are carefully landscaped, and others are devoted to nature’s will.   

Some houses are overgrown with ivy, the vines purposefully left alone because the owners enjoy the “rustic” appearance. To them, the ivy means they’re not like those *other* households that make upwards of $150,000 per year. *We don’t* need *to display how well off we are,* says the ivy, *because image doesn’t* matter *to us*. *We care about nature, not materialism.* The irony in cultivating an image of nonchalance and earthiness is never lost on me. When I’m an adult, would I want to live in a house like that, in a place like this? It isn’t the first time I’ve asked myself an open-ended question, but it is one of the first times I have ever had the time and space to think about the answer.  

	It’s August, and the downhill slope has gradually flattened out. My walk is easy, and I weave through streets lined with cheerfully painted bungalows and full, deep-green trees. I also notice the yard signs that pepper almost every lawn in sight. There are yard signs supporting local politicians, because people here both know the importance of civic engagement and have the means to civically engage. There are Black Lives Matter yard signs and yard signs with the word “welcome” in fifteen different languages, because people here are very proud of Takoma’s diversity, never mind the fact that the town is split into three distinct geographical sections: predominately white, predominately Black, and predominately Hispanic. There are yard signs that display children’s middle and high schools – public high schools, because parents know that it is their responsibility to give their children an authentic, non-private education before sending them off to a top-30 college.  

The yard signs make me wonder what I care about deeply enough to display on my front lawn. When I’m older, what places and things do I want to advertise? The humidity presses down on me, trying to disrupt my contemplation of what makes me happy, but by now I’m used to it. I’ve had these mental conversations with myself too many times now to get distracted by petty things like heat or mosquitoes, and each time I go out, the conversation goes a little further and I learn something new. I barely realize the growth, just as a mother doesn’t notice her child growing until one day he towers three inches above her, but it’s there. Proof of it pops out at random times, like when I walk past the fish pond at the end of my street, remember a question I had at this same spot a week ago, and realize that I now have the answer.   

 It’s January, and I am crushed beneath the weight of heartbreak. It is a unique type of heartbreak, felt by two people in love who have been torn apart from one another by circumstances that neither could control. I am searching for somewhere to direct my loss and sadness, but there is no one to blame. My left turn at the next corner reveals a steady uphill climb ahead of me, and I plod forward through the change in inclination. I try to focus on Taylor Swift’s *evermore* album playing in my earbuds, but I’ve heard the songs so many times that my consciousness is unable to anchor itself. It slips past the music and lands on the cause of my pain. I am forced to confront it, just as I am forced to continue my uphill climb. I know that I can turn around, go back downhill, avoid thinking about it. But I also know that the further I walk downhill, the further I will have to climb back up.   

Nothing is easy right now, and confronting the hill head on will not make the climb any easier, but I realize for the first time that it is something I need to do. I am too used to taking the downhill path. I have always been too busy, too tired, and too afraid to face an uphill climb. But my town is full of hills, and now I have the time and space to climb all of them.   

It’s March, and I’m nearing the top of the hill. I still listen to some songs from *evermore* as I climb, but the ascent is getting less steep and I can see the top. I feel proud, and better than I have in months. My town is hilly, I know, and getting to the top of this one doesn’t buy me freedom from the rest. But I have learned that I can climb, and that although it is hard, time will soothe my soreness. The many weeks that I have spent thinking and walking and healing were a process unlike anything I had ever undergone. Never had I experienced the freedom of space and time to walk without end, reliving the same streets over and over. I walked, I stopped shoving difficult things into corners, and I faced them head on.  

As I reach the top of the hill, children run across the street in front of me toward an assortment of old playground equipment resting in a front yard. Those faded slides are more than just plastic to me – they are the backdrop of my own change. A couple of months ago, the view of those slides was always accompanied by misery. Back then, the misery clouded my life and was amplified during my walks when I allowed it to wash over me. Now, when I look at the slides, the lack of misery is almost euphoric. Not just because I am happy, but because when I used to look at them, I didn’t think I could ever feel the way I do today.  

It’s April, and I finally get to Carroll Avenue. Up ahead is my elementary school bus stop, where parents would laugh at things I did not understand, and where I met one of my best friends. To my right is the bakery where my middle school friends and I convened every morning on our walk to school after buying muffins for breakfast. I pass the gas station where my friends and I would buy $1 Arizona ice teas to keep us cool on our walks home together, and I smile as I go by the playground where I spent entire days as a toddler, learning how to climb and fall and get back up. My past surrounds me as I walk through my present, in awe that the only thing separating each of those versions of myself is time.   

It’s May, and I turn off of Carroll Avenue down onto my own street. I know that my walk is coming to an end, but I revel in the comfort, safety, and space that the hour provided me. Comfort flows from the familiarity of street names and stop signs, and from the certainty that my walk today was just like the walk I will take tomorrow. Safety envelopes me like a mother’s hug as I take advantage of bike lanes and wide sidewalks, privileged streets that were made for two feet, not four wheels. And space. The sheer square mileage of comfort and safety gives my mind room to roam freely. Unlike the walls of my house, Takoma has never boxed me in.  
The dark green siding of my home peeks out at me from behind other houses as I walk down the hill. My porch steps come into view next, dotted with the blooming potted plants that my mother bought at the hardware store up the street. Standing guard over it all is the elm tree, looking just as it did when I first moved into this house eight years ago. Everything is the same as when I left. My home is stagnant and gives me no room for self-reflection, but on my walks, everything has changed. 

In the nothingness of the past year, I found myself. I smiled and cried as my feet wound their way along the streets of Takoma with only my thoughts to chart my path forward. The world we all knew, *before,* was full of noise. Here, I have found peace. 

