Three days before I graduated from college, and one week before I was to move to the city, my relationship ended. It felt kind of like a cartoon where a character tries to pull a tablecloth from a table laden with delicate dishes, except the dishes also come flying off the table and smash to pieces on the wall, and then the character slips on a banana peel and faceplants for good measure. A bit of a shock to the system. It felt disrespectful that the world kept turning. 

The end of that relationship and the start of my new life in this new city summoned a feeling that everything was collapsing down around me, and I had been left with nothing but the rubble of my past in a strange and unfamiliar landscape that was supposed to be my future. Dramatic, yes, but how could it not be, when my vision of my life in San Francisco had so suddenly changed? My closest friends had moved across the country, and the one person who really knew me that was still in the city was my now-ex-boyfriend. There was nothing to do but unpack my things. 

As I touched down in my new apartment, with Haight Street on one side, the Panhandle on the other, and Golden Gate Park sprawling out to the West, a fuse popped in my brain, and everything shut down. And then it began to reboot. And as I began to come back together, something remarkably strange happened. 

I wish someone had told me that the breakup would be like the process of trying to fix your broken laptop in vain, and then you finally decide to turn it off and then turn it back on again, except that instead of just fixing itself, it also installs a new software update you didn’t even know existed, and suddenly you’ve gone from a clunker which was functional but exhausting to a vehicle of creativity which does more than you ever thought possible. 

At first as I emerged on the other side of it all, I described it to my friends as feeling like waking up, or like a weight had been lifted off of my back. But as the dust cleared I realized that there was more. It’s true that everything I had lost during the relationship, everything I had pushed to the backburner to put him first, to learn about his interests, and to care for his feelings, was coming back. But everything I had gained from that relationship, which was meaningful for years before we ever dated, stayed with me too. The carefree recklessness that can make life so fun. The knowledge that you’ll never get something you don’t ask for, and the renewed confidence that I am a person capable of immense amounts of joy. The thrill of being yourself unabashedly, and putting yourself out there and knowing that the ones who are drawn to you are drawn to you for the right reasons. I realized, slowly, that I had the potential to grow into something greater than anything I had ever been. 

This energy propelled me, and the city propelled me further. Newly motivated, I wanted to read and write and run and dance and play. I bought a sketchpad and new pens, and went solo to country swing dance lessons. My frisbee friends took me to Madrone, and I took a guy I met at the climbing gym to frisbee. I strolled down Haight Street like I grew up on it, and was so inspired by the guitar playing of the grungy characters sitting on their backpacking gear that I bought a guitar on Facebook marketplace, walking three miles round trip to the Castro and back to pick it up. I ran through the park and the Presidio, I ran to meet my friends and I ran just for myself. And my energy flowed into the Haight and and Inner Sunset and Nopa and those places gave me energy right back.

I knew that the weather had something to do with it all, but I didn’t know how until I read Gary Kamiya’s love letter to San Francisco (also known as the book called Cool Gray City of Love). He writes of the city's weather: “Cool and fresh, constantly cleansed by the sea, it is walking weather, thinking weather, alert weather.” I can’t remember a time when my mind has felt more clear and alert than while walking in this past month. I walked through all the neighborhoods that I never walked through, realizing with immense embarrassment that the city is so much more than what you can see from the Marina. A happy casualty of my relationship ending was the last shred of desire I had remaining to spend any time in that neighborhood, where my ex-boyfriend moved last year because it was one of the only neighborhoods he knew where Stanford people would be living (and, to his credit, because it is one of the only flat places in the city to run). The only times I’ve been back have been when my friends and I have gone there to cold plunge in the bay. And I can’t say that I miss it. My friends and I have adventured through the city for weeks down alleyways and into new bars, and I have never once run into my ex-boyfriend because he isn’t doing the things I want to do, and I have no interest in the things he is doing. 

I keep waiting for the momentum to die. Surely, the excitement will fade, and I won't want to go to a morning workout with strangers on a weekday, or play frisbee for hours on a Saturday morning, or spend an entire Sunday afternoon walking and busing in circles around the city with my friends. And yet, instead of getting harder, it’s getting easier. The more I learn about the city, the more it has to give. I find myself in new neighborhoods almost accidentally now, and the weekends are becoming more and more filled with fun things to do because everything is fun to do. I’ve never been in a place that has made me so sure I will never want to leave. 

On my third day in the city, I wrote a long note about how sad I was, then gave it to Gemini and asked it if I was depressed. What it told me can be condensed down into “I can’t really tell if it’s your brain or just your life that’s fucked up right now,” which didn’t really help. But it also told me that what would make it possible to tell the difference was time. If I still felt like this in a couple of weeks, it told me, then there was definitely a problem. Be sure to keep checking in with yourself, and with your loved ones, it told me. That was a month ago. I think I’ll be alright. 