I began to lose my identity on the day that my Abuelo started elementary school. His English amounted only to what he had been able to pick up from cartoons and cereal boxes, and since his teacher’s instructions were not in Spanish he couldn’t understand them. Despite the prevalence of Mexican immigrants in Southern California at the time, the only place the school saw fit for him was a class for children with learning disabilities. Thus began the first of many humiliations that led my Abuelo to view his native tongue as a source of shame.  

When my mother was born, my Abuelo refused to speak Spanish at home. The way he saw it, he hadn’t scrubbed away his accent, married a white woman, and become a police officer with the Anaheim Police Department just so that his daughter would face the same taunts that endured as a child. For his child’s own protection, he removed his language from her life. The Spanish that had run throughout his family for generations ended with her, and not even a passing phrase would ever reach me. 

I am white America’s success story. When they shamed my Abuelo into erasing the Spanish language from his bloodline, they turned a child who could have been part of a vibrant Chicano community into a girl who can’t hold fluent conversations with her own family members. I have no family recipes, nursery rhymes, or embarrassing tales from my Mexican relatives that I can pass to my own children. My being holds no trace of an immigrant’s story. In essence, they made me one of them. 

Ever since I learned of my family’s past, I have been searching for the part of myself that was buried. I have read Latino literature and volunteered in Spanish-speaking areas of my town in an attempt to understand the rhythms and rules of the Chicano community, but the results have been cacophonous. Every immigrant’s story is different, and their stories must be lived, not learned. I have no way of knowing who I would be with Spanish in my life. The loss of my cultural literacy kept me from connections and communities that could have redefined my entire identity. 

Ironically, the most striking feature that my Abuelo did pass down is the thing that most clearly marks my whiteness: red hair. I know it is possible to be both white and Mexican, as my Abuelo was, but my whiteness combined with my inability to speak Spanish makes me feel as though I don’t deserve to claim any sort of Mexican identity. If I am not made Mexican by the way that I look or the language that I speak, then what makes me Mexican?

I ask myself questions like these on a daily basis. Who decides whether or not I am Mexican? Is Mexican blood enough, or do I need to have been raised surrounded by Mexican culture? Is it unfair to think of myself as Mexican when my skin and language have shielded me from the oppression that so many Mexicans have faced? 
Over time, I have come to believe that I cannot just become Mexican by learning more about Spanish or my Abuelo – either I always have been Mexican, or I never will be. Identity is not something that one can just turn on and off. The challenge I face is determining whether my Mexican identity is just buried so deeply that I haven’t been able to see it flicker, or whether the combined efforts of my Abuelo and American institutions were enough to erase it completely. 

If I had grown up speaking Spanish in my house and with my relatives, I have no doubts that I would consider myself Mexican. If my mother and I regularly conversed in my Abuelo’s native tongue, my answer to people’s questions about the “Lopez” in my last name would be much easier. I could skip the long-winded explanation about my mother’s lack of fluency due to my Abuelo’s hard childhood and simply say “I’m Mexican.”

My story is one of not just a language lost, but a legacy lost. I never gained the literacy that would have allowed me to claim my Abuelo’s homeland as my own. I cannot connect with my classmates who are just as Mexican as me by blood, but more Mexican than I’ll ever be by language. Their words are the stories of their ancestors that they will preserve for generations, stories that mirror the stories of my family which died before I was even born. The blanket that my Abuelo felt he had to throw over his own words shrouds a part of who I am, and because of it my story will always remain unfinished. 




